I remember sitting down in a conference
room and watching this purple and blue
FPS game on console and scratching my
head and it was this really going to be
it was this going to be the thing that
divined Xbox and obviously ten years
later it proves that that was the kind
of the seminal moment for us the
beginning of halo as an Xbox game not
only did halo 1 bring the FPS to the
console it also brought story Cortana
I've spent the last 12 hours the
combination really established sort of a
new genre if you will of FPS console
story expectation halo did a lot of
really conventional storytelling through
cinematics and cool voice acting and
great music obviously but I think some
of the storytelling that happens in Halo
that's most inspiring to me is the
storytelling happens through the
environment in sandbox well you were hit
with all this great fiction that you
could really kind of delve into and try
to understand more about at the same
time you could just pick it up and play
all of that kind of came together to
make a game that it not necessarily was
completely different than what previous
shooters are done but got all of its
individual formulas so excellently
perfect you have this incredible first
person shooter experience that I don't
think anyone had ever even come close to
before it halo was the beginning of me
playing console games with my friends
and that's still how I always think
about it
I think people have been asking for a
remake of halo 1 since halo 2 was
announced I like to go all the way back
to the day that Xbox Live came out and
the demand for halo 1 and the ability to
place a co-op over Xbox Live kind of
started and built up over the years and
over the years it was the perfect timing
since the 10-year anniversary was coming
up it occurred to us that there's this
entire generation of people who never
played the original game if you're an 18
year old named ER today you were eight
when halo came out we did due diligence
on a number of partners the number one
requirement was that it didn't impact
and play at all you have a classic you
have something that's just magical right
if you go and tinker with it you're
going to lose that magic what we really
needed was someone who could work with
our existing physics and gameplay engine
saber popped up really quickly they're
like yeah we can do this we can make the
game look like a current generation game
and we can do it by using the original
halo one engine the gameplay inhale one
is what's called deterministic in other
words if you feed then in the same input
the game will behave in the same way and
if you can apply this principle across a
network you can have to bring world's
completely in sync so rather than
simulate hail as original game player
inhalers original physics we're able to
actually use them completely so the car
is nice and trainer but zanjan is fairly
old but so we'll have to make sure that
it's all kind of fits together and then
we have to speed up the engine to make
sure it works in today's poll we've done
some deliberate things the library is
easier to navigate now we use lighting
and textures to make it a little bit
simpler the pillars are covered in
Holograms on one side or they're more
decorated on the other side from what
we've noticed it actually seems to help
people that are familiar with the
library figure out where they're going
through the reconciliation is one of the
best examples I can give if you come to
that first interaction then you make
your way towards a cliff you can look up
and see this unbelievable skybox and so
having all these updated graphics has
really made the game to me just more
immersive I still remember the first
time I saw someone switched to graphics
I didn't know that was actually going to
be a feature but I saw someone do it in
a lot of ways it was a very very fine
balancing act is again we're running all
the original halo 1 animations so with
the original a llewyn's skeletons for
those characters needed to be rebound
into the updated meshes that we had
brought over from halo region from halo
3 for example the elite
she has an elongated neck so they're a
little bit more squat and compact
cracking the case in 30 seconds welcome
back sir we'll have you battle ready
step masterpiece iconic he has to look
like a hero and he has to look just
right Chiefs armors was that was a tough
process we went back and forth on that
for a long time originally we were using
a mark 5 armor that's built in the
multiplayer component of reach we just
kept coming back and it just didn't look
like masterji the first stuff we put out
around III I think the forum reaction
was instantly chief looks wrong visors
too big the color is all wrong some
people thought we were doing it
intentionally as a retro if you saw the
original but chief from like 1999 era
had a really tall very matte reflective
helmets actually looked similar the bad
thing about this group working on this
project is that we are very very
passionate about getting this right we
iterated on that probably six seven
months before we finally got a final
Jeeves armor that I think was awesome
one of the number one asks that we had
for halo remake whose we won't co-op all
of a lot of the original halo on
campaign experience had already been
designed for cooperative play you notice
when you're getting out of the initial
cryo tube it's actually two cryo tubes
for the first cinematic it definitely
creates another challenge for us when
you're playing with somebody else but we
obviously wanted to support that cool
breeze was billed to turn only from 15
years ago so we have to figure out how
this code bases structures house was
designed we had a lot of people work
really long hours to make it happen and
to really cut it ultimately from scratch
it's pretty seamless so you'll go into
the campaign lobby and there you'll see
your friends who are online playing the
game you fire off an invite to a friend
and they'll be able to join you allowing
you to play what was originally a
split-screen cooperative campaign
experience now across
classically skulls and halo tend to
affect behavior which means the AI needs
to support those behavioral changes how
do we create something that alters
gameplay well one of our front of Ethel
tenants keeping gameplay the same skulls
are one of the tools we're giving the
player that if they do want to change
the gameplay experience a little bit
they can do a benefit to this is that
mostly spells of brand new you've never
seen them before you don't play them
like malfunction where random had
elements disappear whenever you respawn
boom is a skull that increases the
radius of explosions making explosions
more dangerous both for the Covenant and
for the player that in combination with
something like funeral means that you
become very afraid gross we must
continue this way please there are a few
features the gun in the game that turned
out better than we expected in 3ds
probably the number one it was it was
unexpected it was a bonus and I don't
see 3d very well but it really worked
for me so for some reason it just pops
in halo in a way that doesn't in other
games or even movies yeah I'd say the
feature that surprised me the most was
connect so we've got a number of voice
commands or at the course of the game
things like grenade reload at a point
during the game when you're playing you
can say analyze and this mode comes up
where you can almost capture items so
you move your cursor over saying a
leader a grunt and in the library you
can go in there and see the things
you've captured move the model around in
3d and it gives you a bit of a breakdown
an explanation of what those characters
are for me when I think about halo I
think about looking around and just
scope and the scale of everything this
is the game that started at all and
people can really dive in and play and
remember what it was like to play at 10
years ago and if you didn't play it ten
years ago you can see what it was like
10 years ago the quintessential walk
down memory
with a much better visuals ultimately
the thing you learn is doesn't just look
modern it feels completely mortar and
completely remastered campaign great
additional features that co-op over live
skulls terminals 3d connect and
multiplayer once you see it for yourself
it could I don't know really it's a
pretty awesome experience just a lot of
stuff in there for forty dollars we're
actually really excited about the fact
that there's so much there and it's a
real smorgasbord of stuff for people who
enjoy halo one of the best values that
you'll find this holiday season by far